---
layout: post
title: Docker + Chromium = SIGBUS
---
## Tales of a bughunt

All began with reading @jfrazelle stuffs about dockerizing desktop apps.
Some programs are not so good citizens, i.e. Okular leaves a KDE daemon running.
Another serious contender is my browser, Chromium, which after the
 Google voice blob thing seemed appropriate to contain.
Something that is more private than private browsing and *cannot* use my
 webcam/sound card would be really nice...

After learning Docker X sharing (simple bind mount), it should be easy to
 [create](https://github.com/csmarosi/dockerFiles/blob/master/chromium_gui/Dockerfile)
 or use someone else's docker. Run it like

    docker run --rm -it -e DISPLAY -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix:ro chromium_gui

 and check some website: `Aw, Snap!`. From previous experience, it may be SIGSEGV
Let's check as usual: with gdb and strace:

    #strace -ff -o log chromium --no-sandbox --user-data-dir=/tmp
    log.143:--- SIGBUS {si_signo=SIGBUS, si_code=BUS_ADRERR, si_addr=0x7f3355a2b000} ---

SIGBUS on x86? gdb backtrace seems perfectly legal.
Google was not really helpful on this. And this is the same even for ssh X forward.
To check that this is really a Docker issue, I went insane:

    mount --bind / /mnt/root/
    mount --bind /sys/ /mnt/root/sys/
    mount --bind /proc/ /mnt/root/proc/
    mount --bind /dev/ /mnt/root/dev/
    chroot /mnt/root/
    chromium --no-sandbox --user-data-dir=/tmp

Of course, it worked. This bind mounts in Docker?
Works too; turns out, only /dev is needed (on Debian jessie).
Fortunately Debian sid (the other version I use)
 differs in that `/dev/shm` is a symlink to `/run/shm`.
Mounting `/dev` worked only jessie; on sid I got something like:

    Creating shared memory in /dev/shm/.org.chromium.Chromium.sSLYBL failed: Permission denied
    Unable to access(W_OK|X_OK) /dev/shm: Permission denied
    This is frequently caused by incorrect permissions on /dev/shm. Try 'sudo chmod 1777 /dev/shm' to fix.

This leads to [this Docker issue](https://github.com/docker/docker/issues/2606)
and one possible workaround for the SIGBUS:

    -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm -v /run/shm:/run/shm


### Reduced steps to reproduce

What now? Is it that 64M /dev/shm is not enough for chromium?
What if `mount -o remount,size=64M /dev/shm`? Aw, snap!
Unfortunately watching the output of `df` came to my mind only this time.
Chromium uses `/dev/shm`, but it does not really need shared memory;
`mount --bind /tmp/ /dev/shm/` works perfectly too.
Getting this crash is not that far fetched; I managed get Aw, snap! on a machine
 with 2G RAM by leaving the same amount of tabs I usually do on my >8G machines.

### Lessons learned

* [Google](http://www.google.co.uk/search?q=sigbus) and
[Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2089167/debugging-sigbus-on-x86-linux)
 can be horribly wrong
* SIGBUS-ing on tmpfs full is an awful error message
* Watching the health of the system/docker container would have saved tons of time
